this has never happened before what's
going on right now in the car market is
literally the first time and I'm going
to explain it to you and why it's
actually happening we are seeing record
level delinquencies I'm not talking
about 2008 I'm talking about right now
and I'm going to show you the data which
proves that you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you you have
to understand when we start seeing
delinquencies rise that means people
can't pay their bills and we start
digging one layer deeper after another
and F
conclusively what's going on and knowing
that this was inevitable let me break it
down for you so you've got the issue
with the cars of course and this is
something like we had imagined would
occur because when people can pay their
bills because of high interest rates
because of inflation because of the debt
yes you're going to encounter a problem
did we know it was going to happen in
the auto market before another one no
not necessarily but here we are today
car owners fall behind on payments at
the highest rate on record the risk of
vehicle repossession is rising for many
Americans facing a budget crunch now I
want to make this very clear they say
highest on record and that data goes
back to 1994 okay so just make that sure
like it could have been worse at some
point but the data only goes back to
1994 and you will see that for yourself
right here you're looking at interest
rate hikes making knew were loans more
expensive millions of car owners
struggling to afford their payments it's
a clear indication of distress at a time
when the economy is sending mixed
signals yeah of course consumers don't
have the spending money that they did
before but higher borrowing cost the
subprime borrower specifically is
getting squeezed and why is that
important because that's the Bell
weather first the subprime mortgager uh
subprime mortgage here we go a fridi and
slip looking at the sub Prime borrower
we saw that in you know 2006 2007 that
started coming up in the real estate
market but now we're seeing the same
thing with cars today Americans struggle
to afford their car payments you could
see the percentage of borrowers at least
60 days late on their car loans at a
record high okay now that's key but I
was shocked to see the
percentages if you see if you look at
this data the actual percent percentage
in which people are borrowing to get a
car to me this seemed I mean how could
it even be possible but let me show you
I mean it
is I I couldn't believe it anyway here
we go so I'll talk about the actual
amount of money that people pay in a
given month but let's just look at the
interest rates for the moment here look
for those with the best credit scores
interest rates are about 5% for a new
car 7% for a used vehicle that's the
average right now in the United States
for those with the worst credit rates
are about
14% And
21% for new and used cars respectively
all right so just thinking about that if
you had a credit score as they say here
580 so not a very good credit score
she's paying an interest rate of
13.5% on her 2019 Honda Ridgeline truck
that comes out to roughly $700 a month
for the loan and the insurance not to
factor in the gas on top of that and so
on so a vehicle is extremely expensive
and this is of course you you feel the
the brunt particularly when you have
that bad credit and that's why fixing
your credit is essential if you want to
be able to have a car if you want to be
able to have a home if you want things
sometimes you need credit you need
access to credit and remember there are
circumstances in which you know you're
okay now but you know in 3 years from
now what's that going to be are you
going need to borrow more money because
of you know your circumstances just
remember that you always want to keep
your credit in check so you've got
people borrowing anywhere between 5% 7%
15% who knows but it shows us that we
could be you know needing to get around
our vehicle and that could be a very big
expense on a monthly basis this was not
an issue 10 years ago just you know
taking into account everything taking
into account inflation take into account
your real incomes now things have been
blown out of the water do you agree with
me on that I think it's pretty clear
that's why I'm trying to look out for
you to explain these things of how did
we get here and we'll explain that
further of course but I want to put you
front and center because I have seen
this over and over again where yeah we
can get the numbers but what does it
mean to you let's look
further America is in a cardboard box
recession demand for services is Cooling
and inflation could surge again this is
according to Charles Schwab's Charles
Schwab top Global strategist and
basically the cardboard box indication
is okay if the cardboard boxes are not
in demand and then the stuff to put in
that well well this is kind of like the
the very first thing we need more boxes
before we can put stuff in and that
tells us what's happening in the economy
the consumer is feeling it right now and
yeah they're feeling it because of the
student loans the mortgage payments the
rent and of course their car payments
all of this makes sense when we start to
connect the dots I know you're feeling
it I know people that are making six
figures a year and because suddenly that
everything was fine couple years ago 3
years ago and now they're in big trouble
six figures a year so it's Troublesome
by the way it depends on of course um
you know what city you're living
in it's a cash buyers Market average
interest rate on new car loans is nearly
10%
APR it all depends you know the the car
company you're looking at where you are
exactly I mean there many factors but
anyway this is coming from a reputable
Source here uh if you want to know
anything about the car market you can
look at this guy on on Twitter X um and
and see it for yourself car dealership
guy but that's where it's at and so
people are paying cash right now because
they don't want to pay 10% and makes
sense if you have the cash record number
of car buyers are paying
$11,000 plus per month amid uh low
vehicle inventory this was back in July
but I just want to show you that people
will pay ,000 a month and not for you
know anything spectacular these are not
Lamborghinis over here we're talking
about cars yes they're not the bottom of
the barrel type vehicle but that's a big
payment a month what is that going to do
of course it's going to impact people's
ability to buy other stuff the economy
cannot sustain this working from home
for good sell that second car remote
workers are saving thousands of dollars
a year by selling their second household
vehicle this was back in 20120 and of
course for many people they did this
they said we've got two vehicles here
and both of us are working from home we
don't need both so let's get rid of one
and so that was an opportunity for some
to do so but when one vehicle payment is
now adding up to what it you know used
to be two you have a big problem
this is crazy what has happened over the
last few years why has this happened
devaluation of the currency I think it's
pretty clear when you break it down like
that it makes a lot of sense now Marvin
Gay asked the question what's going on
and we can break that down a little bit
further this inflation doesn't equal
falling prices I know I've seen your
comments before I believe I've
highlighted that in the comment of the
day even but here we go Consumer Price
Index looking at it comparing that um
just showing us that okay you can see
what has happened and the CPI in a
year-over-year
change might go down but that does not
mean that it you know prices go down and
they're showing us the index that's the
blue
line um of course over time stuff gets
more expensive and then people blame you
know whoever whoever they want to they
blame a politician they blame you know a
corporation whatever but people don't
like to blame the central banks number
one they don't know what a central bank
is but generally it's shrouded in
mystery and so when we start to
understand that every time they print
that currency it devalues your savings
and so you struggle to pay your car
bills when it wasn't a challenge before
and that's a matter of fact yes there's
supply and demand there's all these
different things but knowing that we
have to start to see it for what it is
and pay close
attention you could see the uh student
loan borrowers I couldn't believe this
they racked up credit card debt during
the payment
pause this is a big problem so we don't
have to pay the $400 a month for the
student loans so we're going to take on
credit card debt at this time at 20%
interest rates my goodness 18% who knows
what they were borrowing at at the time
that is a double
whammy and so this starts to add up and
paint the whole picture the consumer is
suffering people are in more debt than
ever before and interest rates tied to
that debt
is at levels we haven't seen in decades
and decades and so this creates a
potential for a deleveraging event
deleveraging and what does this mean it
means essentially people have to start
letting go of these things these big
ticket items that they've bought with
debt or in some cases people are buying
everything with thatb and now the the
potential cause of course would be
invent vories of everything rising and
companies freaking out and panicking
layoffs would ensue and you would have a
deflationary
environment rapidly the result of this
would be okay the car companies are in
trouble all right let's begin the
bailouts everybody get out there and
start throwing cash at these companies
you would also have potentially who
knows another round of quantitative
easing interest rate cuts and more more
inflationary policies coming from the
central bank and that my friends is what
this is all about I hope I made myself
clear there's a lot of data to support
this you could see it Rising interest
rates lead to valuation reversals every
single time do you see what I'm trying
to get out here people say ah it's all
these charts and article what does this
even mean there's a method to the
madness but you've got to watch through
the whole thing because I have a reason
I put these all in a order for a reason
you could see that look I want to give
you what you need to know and I think
it's pretty simple when we start to
understand what the central banks are
doing then of course that starts to
break it down and realize wait a minute
if they're going to be printing money
that means risk assets will be worth
more as a result
nominally and that's why we saw during
this runup in
2020 the things that were considered the
riskiest and I talk about this all the
time to my live um class on the
Fridays I say look at Zoom versus xon
Mobile in
2020 xon mobile was worth less than Zoom
I'm talking about the video conferencing
software being worth more than x on
mobile one of the most the biggest
companies in the world and in 2013 was
the biggest company in the world you
know things get Topsy chvy but every
single time that's the way it is and
they stop that by increasing interest
rates this is what they do you look back
I have studied all the history so boring
falling asleep reading it that's how
boring this stuff can get sometimes when
you're read in through books like
America's Great Depression by Murray and
rothberg and he's telling you the name
of every single person that is at a
meeting and you're reading that over and
over and over again trust me you fall
asleep but in the end when you finish
the book you are more informed now I've
done that for you I've already made it
easy and look 95% of the information
I've read it probably it's gone you know
gone out the window but the 5% the
important stuff I bring that to you and
I've condensed some of that the absolute
basics in what I call Compass and the
best part about Compass is that you're
not going to pay $ 999 you're not going
to pay 500 you're not going to pay 100
in fact you're not going to pay anything
it's free I made it for you for free all
you got to do oh there's no email
address there's no pay wall there's
nothing all you got to do is go to the
link in the description
check out Compass tell your friends and
family I didn't even put a link anywhere
on that page to my YouTube at all so you
send that link to somebody and they will
have the basics of financial education
whether that's you whether that's a
family member and it's like 20 minutes a
video it's super short and they're going
to get the knowledge that they need I
hope you'll do that and I hope you'll
give you some feedback on it I want to
know what you think I'm always ears so
please let me know if you were the type
of person that wants to be in a small
Zoom class handson you want to actually
understand things we've got a Friday
class that's all about economics that's
all about the stock market we break it
down this is what has happened this week
this is what you need to watch out for
these are the potential Investments
that's the Friday class on the Sunday
class it's all about e-commerce it's all
about business Okay small class Zoom
class anywhere between like two and six
people at any given time depending who
could show up that day and you can get
more information about that at the money
gps.com or at the link in the
description where it says mentorship
Okay I want to see you there okay check
that out and comment of the day thank
you very much Ron for your comment I
always thought of reclusive Hermits to
be odd and now I've realized how they
are right we call them Preppers now
isn't it so funny the way things change
the way things
happen certainly we are in some wild
times I want to thank you all for being
here today and don't forget to check me
out tomorrow make sure your
notifications are there even if they are
they might not notify you but I hope
that you'll check me out tomorrow see
you then take care